kie-kogito-docs-557: Add Newsletter subscription use case (#558)
apache/incubator-kie-kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/use-cases/advanced-developer-use-cases/event-orchestration/newsletter-subscription-example.adoc

> = Newsletter Subscription example in {product_name}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Newsletter subscription example in {product_name}
```

:compat-mode!:
// Metadata:

> :description: Newsletter subscription example in Serverless Workflow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:description: Newsletter subscription example in {product_name}
```

:keywords: kogito, workflow, serverless
:flow_newsletter_subscription_url: {kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-newsletter-subscription

This example demonstrates a few features powered by the {product_name} following the Serverless Workflow specification including:

* REST Services calls via OpenAPI definitions
* Pause and resume of a given workflow instance
* Consuming and producing CloudEvents

In a Knative environment, the services involved in this use case can be scaled to zero and resume from the exact stage it was, saving cluster resources in the process.

The figure below illustrates the overall architecture of this use case.

image::use-cases/newsletter-subscription/architecture.png[Architecture]

. Once a new subscription request comes, the flow will evaluate if it's not already subscribed.

> . If not, it will attempt to subscribe the new user and wait for the confirmation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If not, it will attempt to subscribe to the new user and wait for the confirmation.
```

> . Once a new event containing the confirmation arrives, the flow will resume and subscribe the new user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Once a new event containing the confirmation arrives, the flow will resume and subscribe to the new user.
```

. Subscriptions that are not confirmed during a configured period of time, are considered timed-out and are automatically removed from the system.

> . By the end, a new event containing the details of the subscription is broadcasted in the environment, so other actors can react upon it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. By the end, a new event containing the details of the subscription is broadcast in the environment, so other actors can react to it.
```

              "id": "$WORKFLOW.instanceId",
              "name": "${ .name }"
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "end": {
        "produceEvents": [
          {
            "eventRef": "NewSubscriptionEvent"
          }
        ],
        "terminate": true
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "DeleteSubscription",
      "type": "operation",
      "actions": [
        {
          "functionRef": {
            "refName": "deleteSubscription",
            "arguments": {
              "id": "$WORKFLOW.instanceId"
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "end": true
    },
    {
      "name": "NoSubscription",
      "type": "inject",
      "data": {
        "subscribed": true
      },
      "end": true
    }
  ]
}
----

The newsletter-subscription example involves two services:

* Newsletter subscription application. It allows to create new subscriptions and runs the workflow.
* Newsletter subscription Backend. It allows to see the pending and the approved subscriptions

Both services provide specific user interface to allow to track what's going on with the subscriptions

[#workflow_newsletter_subscription_ui]
== The User Interface

> As a Quarkus project, the UI resources can be placed at folder `src/main/resources/META-INF/resources`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a Quarkus project, you can place the UI resources in the `src/main/resources/META-INF/resources` folder.
```

> The Newsletter Subscription Application (subscription-flow) has a user interface to interact with the workflow without having to rely on the command line to push events or making HTTP requests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Newsletter Subscription Application (subscription-flow) has a user interface to interact with the workflow without having to rely on the command line to push events or make HTTP requests:
```

The used resources are available at link:{flow_newsletter_subscription_url}/subscription-flow/src/main/resources/META-INF/resources[Newsletter Subscription Application flow UI resources].

.Newsletter subscription user interface
image::use-cases/newsletter-subscription/newsletter-subscription-ui.png[Newsletter subscription UI]

The Newsletter Subscription backend (subscription-service) has a user interface to see the state of the existing subscriptions

The used resources are available at link:{flow_newsletter_subscription_url}/subscription-service/src/main/resources/META-INF/resources[Subscription service UI resources].

.Newsletter subscription backend user interface
image::use-cases/newsletter-subscription/newsletter-subscription-backend-ui.png[Newsletter subscription backend UI]

== Executing the workflows

> In a command terminal, clone the `kogito-examples` repository, navigate to the cloned directory, and follow link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-newsletter-subscription/README.md#running-on-knative[these steps]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a command terminal, clone the `kogito-examples` repository, navigate to the cloned directory, and follow the link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-newsletter-subscription/README.md#running-on-knative[these steps]:
```

Author: @kaldesai 'link' in this case is not shown, it's just a key to create the following link.. It will be shown like: "and follow **these steps**" what I think is fine. WDYT?

[source, bash]
----
git clone https://github.com/apache/incubator-kie-kogito-examples.git

cd kogito-examples/serverless-workflow-examples/serverless-workflow-newsletter-subscription
----

=== Architecture

The following diagram shows the architecture for this use case:

> . Every time a workflow needs to program a timer for a given timeout, a cloud event is sent to the {job_service_xref}#integration-with-the-workflows[job service] for that purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Whenever a workflow needs to program a timer for a given timeout, a cloud event is sent to the {job_service_xref}#integration-with-the-workflows[job service] for that purpose.
```

. When a timer is overdue, a rest call is executed to notify the workflow, which then must execute according to the given state semantic.
. Workflow and job status changes are propagated to the {data_index_xref}[data index service] via cloud events.

.Knative Workflow with Job Service architecture
image::use-cases/newsletter-subscription/newsletter-subscription-Architecture.png[]

* *subscription-flow:* Is the Quarkus Workflow Project that contains the workflows that must be maven build, and deployed into the kubernetes cluster.

* *subscription-service:* Is the Quarkus Workflow Project that contains the backend operations, that must be maven built, and deployed into the kubernetes cluster.

> * *jobs-service-postresql:* Is the job service that will be deployed into the kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *jobs-service-PostgreSQL:* Is the job service that will be deployed into the kubernetes cluster.
```

* *data-index-service-postgresql:* Is the data index service that will be deployed into the kubernetes cluster.

* *timeouts-showcase-database:* Is the PostgreSQL instance that will be deployed into the kubernetes cluster.

[NOTE]
====

> For simplification purposes, a single database instance is used for both services to store the information about the workflow instances, and the timers.  However, in a production environment it is recommended to have independent database instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For simplification purposes, a single database instance is used for both services to store the information about the workflow instances, and the timers.  However, in a production environment, it is recommended to have independent database instances.
```
